Updated to fix OAuth challenges. (#4)
klaviyo-labs/Pet-Party-Planner: README.md

# Pet Party Planner

## A Klaviyo Example OAuth Application

The purpose of this application is to give an example of how Klaviyo's OAuth authentication
combined with the powerful public API can create a unique Klaviyo Integration.

## What this app does

This application is an example of a Klaviyo OAuth integration which is used for pet party planning. It uses Klaviyo and a separate database to store all party attendees' info. This app will help you understand how to successfully set up OAuth with Klaviyo and make calls with our server-side API.

> This app is not designed be used as the basis for your OAuth app. Rather, use this as an educational resource to understand the OAuth flow.

Reviewer: Lots of duplication up to this point, try to condense and combine a bit, something like:

> # Example OAuth Integration - Pet Party Planner
> 
> The purpose of this application is to provide an example of how Klaviyo's OAuth authentication, combined with the powerful public API, can create a unique Klaviyo OAuth integration. It is intended to help you understand how to successfully set up OAuth with Klaviyo and make calls with our server-side API.
> 
> This app is *not* designed be used as scaffolding for creating your OAuth app. Rather, use this as an educational resource to better understand the OAuth flow.

I would also mention and link to your OAuth Academy course somehow upfront, to further emphasize this is an educational resource. Maybe mention how this repo is used/refernced in that broader course on OAuth.

### Features

> 

Reviewer: Remove the pet party specific info from above, and add it as a sentence here describing the app. There are probably better words than this, but pulled these two lines from above: "This application plans parties for your pets. It uses Klaviyo and a separate database to store all party attendees' info."

# Example OAuth App - Pet Party Planner

> The purpose of this application is to provide an example of how you can create and authenticate an app with Klaviyo's OAuth authentication. It is designed to help you understand how to successfully set up OAuth with Klaviyo and make calls with our server-side APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The purpose of this application is to provide an example of how you can create and authenticate an app with Klaviyo's OAuth authentication. It is designed to help you understand how to successfully set up OAuth with Klaviyo and make calls with our server-side APIs. You can check out other [examples with OAuth sample code](https://github.com/klaviyo-labs/node-integration-example) in Klaviyo Labs.
```

> The purpose of this application is to provide an example of how Klaviyo's OAuth authentication, combined with the powerful public API, can create a unique Klaviyo OAuth integration. It is intended to help you understand how to successfully set up OAuth with Klaviyo and make calls with our server-side API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration serves as an example of how Klaviyo's OAuth authentication, combined with its powerful public APIs, can create a unique Klaviyo OAuth integration. It is designed to help you understand how to successfully set up OAuth with Klaviyo and make calls with our server-side APIs.
```

> This app is not designed be used as scaffolding for creating your OAuth app. Rather, use this as an educational resource to better understand the OAuth flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration is not designed be used as scaffolding for creating your OAuth app. Rather, use this as an educational resource to better understand the OAuth flow.
```

Reviewer 2: I feel like we should choose either "app" or "integration" throughout this README to describe this project. Since it was renamed to integration, I'm thinking let's stick with that.

### Features

This application plans parties for your pets. It uses Klaviyo and a separate database to store all party attendees' info.

## Prerequisites

1. **A Klaviyo account:** [Sign up](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/create_a_test_account) for a free Klaviyo account, or sign in to your test account if you have an existing Klaviyo account.
2. **Ensure needed packages are installed:** Ensure you have `node` (18.18 or later) installed plus the below `Tools used in this application` section for more details.

> 3. **A Klaviyo Integration** Create a new integration for this sample application. To get help getting started with creating an integration read [started with OAuth guide](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/create_a_public_oauth_app)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **A Klaviyo integration** Create a new app for this sample integration. To get help getting started with creating a public OAuth app, read our [Create a public OAuth app guide](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/create_a_public_oauth_app).
```

## Tools used in this application

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/): Next.js framework is used to serve front-end pages as well as host backend endpoints

> - [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/): A NoSQL database used to save application inter

Reviewer 2: is this complete?

- [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/): A MongoDB ORM to connect to MongoDB

> - [Klaviyo Api](https://github.com/klaviyo/klaviyo-api-node): The Klaviyo Node SDK is used for integrating with public API easier

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Klaviyo Node SDK](https://github.com/klaviyo/klaviyo-api-node): The Klaviyo Node SDK is used to easily integrate with Klaviyo's public APIs
```

- ... and others. These are the most relevant ones for interacting with Klaviyo.

>   See the [package.json](./package.json) for the full list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  See the [package.json](./package.json) for the full list.
```

> ## How This App is structured

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How this app is structured
```

> ## How This App is structured

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How this integration is structured
```

> This application follows the Next.js app router format for creating a file structure; read more about it [here.](https://nextjs.org/docs/app)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration follows the Next.js app router format for creating a file structure; read more about it [here.](https://nextjs.org/docs/app)
```

The basics you need to know are as follows:

1. `page.tsx` files serves React components to the route composed of the parent folder's names.
2. `route.ts` files serve API endpoints to the route composed of the parent folder's name.

> ## How this app integrates with Klaviyo

Reviewer 2: I feel like this section title here is a little confusing. I would keep the callouts that follow (lines 36-40) under disclaimers, then jump into the OAuth connection flow section.

> [!CAUTION]
> For OAuth apps, it's required to have all API calls come from the server-side API (as opposed to using our [client-side APIs](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/create_client_event) which customers use for a variety or reasons). Using server-side APIs ensures consistency and use of OAuth-specific features.
>
> If your OAuth app does not make calls via your app's specific OAuth access token, your app will not be accepted to Klaviyo's app marketplace and the end user may experience unexpected behavior when using your OAuth app.

> ### OAuth authorization code flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Setting up the OAuth flow
```

> ### OAuth Connection Flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### OAuth authorization code flow
```

Reviewer 2: this is what it's called in the docs + I think we should be consistent

> This app starts the OAuth flow in the Klaviyo UI with the code living in the client application. The install URL defaults to `http://localhost:3000/dashboard`, and the settings URL is `http://localhost:3000/settings`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This app starts the OAuth flow in the Klaviyo UI with the code living in the client application. The installation URL defaults to `http://localhost:3000/dashboard`, and the settings URL is `http://localhost:3000/settings`.
```

The [`OAuthSetup.ts`](/src/app/components/KlaviyoIntegration/OAuthSetup.ts) file contains the code for starting the onboarding flow.
It creates the Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) codes needed for verifying the authenticity of the token creation call later and constructs the correct Klaviyo.com URL to redirect to.

> To Read more about starting the OAuth flow, check out the [guide in the developer portal.](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/handle_your_apps_oauth_flow)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To read more about starting the OAuth flow, check out our [Handle your app's OAuth flow guide](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/handle_your_apps_oauth_flow).
```

> To read more about starting the OAuth flow, check out our [Handle your app's OAuth flow guide](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/handle_your_apps_oauth_flow).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> Starting the OAuth flow can also be done by a server-side redirect. Additionally, the [Klaviyo Node SDK](https://github.com/klaviyo/klaviyo-api-node/tree/oauth-beta) provides helpers to construct the redirect url and generate PKCE codes. Check out our other [OAuth sample code](https://github.com/klaviyo-labs/node-integration-example) in Klaviyo Labs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting the OAuth flow can also be done by a server-side redirect. Additionally, the [Klaviyo Node SDK](https://github.com/klaviyo/klaviyo-api-node/tree/oauth-beta) provides helpers to construct the redirect URL and generate PKCE codes. To read more about starting the OAuth flow, check out our [Handle your app's OAuth flow guide](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/handle_your_apps_oauth_flow).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Creating and storing tokens
```

4. **Party signup for attendees:** A page where a call is made to the server which relays the info to Klaviyo to create a new Klaviyo profile and subscribe them to the list.
5. **Viewing attendees:** In the app, view the customers who have subscribed to the Klaviyo list.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: From here down, I feel like we're really blurring the lines between educational context and "get this thing up and running locally" -- I think we need to be clearer (by moving some sections/content around) about the fact that "hey, you don't have to set this thing up locally / you can try if you want to / here are the instructions" (and have that be all at the bottom of the Readme) --- vs. "Here's some general helpful context about OAuth integrations that you'll find in this repo" (above any local setup instructions, to emphasize that this is an educational resource)

## Tools used in this application

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/): Next.js framework is used to serve front-end pages as well as host backend endpoints
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/): A NoSQL database used to save application inter
- [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/): A MongoDB ORM to connect to MongoDB
- [Klaviyo Api](https://github.com/klaviyo/klaviyo-api-node): The Klaviyo Node SDK is used for integrating with public API easier
- ... and others. These are the most relevant ones for interacting with Klaviyo.
  See the [package.json](./package.json) for the full list

## How This App is structured

This application follows the Next.js app router format for creating a file structure; read more about it [here.](https://nextjs.org/docs/app)
The basics you need to know are as follows:

1. `page.tsx` files serves React components to the route composed of the parent folder's names.
2. `route.ts` files serve API endpoints to the route composed of the parent folder's name.

> ## Disclaimers

Reviewer: This is probably redundant/unecessary now that you've added the additional context up top.

This application is for sample purposes only to help understand how to set up OAuth with Klaviyo, and this application should not be used as the basis for any apps.

> The JWT user authentication is a placeholder for demo purposes only and should not be implemented in a production environment.

Reviewer: Is this JWT user auth something that's in the codebase itself? If so I'd move this to a comment directly alongside the code you're talking about rather than mentioning it here.

The callback route uses the `Klaviyo Node SDK` to create a `refresh token` and `access token`.
To allow the `Klaviyo Node SDK` to connect to your token storage solution (in this case, MongoDB) implement an instance of `TokenStorage`.
This application defines the `TokenStorage` implementation in [`/apis/OAuthHelpers.ts`](/src/app/api/OAuthHelpers.ts).

> To read more about how to implement your instance that connects to your preferred storage method, read the [`Klaviyo Node SDK` `README.md`](https://github.com/klaviyo/klaviyo-api-node?tab=readme-ov-file#tokenstorage)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To read more about how to implement your instance that connects to your preferred storage method, read the [`Klaviyo Node SDK` `README.md`](https://github.com/klaviyo/klaviyo-api-node?tab=readme-ov-file#tokenstorage).
```

> NOTE: Looking inside at `TokenStorage` will show that the `refresh token` is stored encrypted. DO NOT STORE THIS PLAIN TEXT; if a `refresh token` is exposed, it can be exploited to create malicious `access tokens`

Reviewer 2: You might want to make this a callout with GitHub markdown.

> NOTE: Looking inside at `TokenStorage` will show that the `refresh token` is stored encrypted. DO NOT STORE THIS PLAIN TEXT; if a `refresh token` is exposed, it can be exploited to create malicious `access tokens`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: Looking inside at `TokenStorage` will show that the `refresh token` is stored encrypted. DO NOT STORE THIS PLAIN TEXT; if a `refresh token` is exposed, it can be exploited to create malicious `access tokens`.
```

> The user can disconnect the integration either from Klaviyo or by navigating to the in-app settings page. Clicking `Remove Integration` calls the Klaviyo `revoke` endpoint to revoke access and refresh tokens and disconnect the integration.

Reviewer 2: Might want to add a header here to make it easier to scan how a user can disconnect. Maybe "Disconnecting the integration"

### Getting the [Klaviyo Public / Site ID](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/115005062267)

> > [!CAUTION]

Reviewer 2: lines 66-69 starting with the CAUTION callout have already been mentioned in the disclaimer section. I think we can remove these.

> For OAuth apps, it's highly recommended to have all API calls come from the server-side API (as opposed to using our [client-side APIs](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/create_client_event) which customers use for a variety or reasons) for consistency and use of OAuth specific features.
>
> If your OAuth app does not make calls via your app's specific OAuth access token, the end user may experience unexpected behavior when using your OAuth app.

The Klaviyo public ID verifies which account the created profile should be under. In this application this value is retrieved to ensure that the OAuth flow was successful.

> In the same file as above, right after a user's `refresh` and `access` tokens are created [`api/callback/route.ts`](/src/app/api/callback/route.ts), the api call to the Klaviyo `/accounts/` endpoint is made after creating the `access_token` and `refresh_token`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the same file as above, right after a user's `refresh` and `access` tokens are created [`api/callback/route.ts`](/src/app/api/callback/route.ts), a API call to the Klaviyo `/accounts/` endpoint is made.
```

This call leverages the `KlaviyoOAuthSession` to connect to the implemented `TokenStorage` and the `AccountsApi.getAccounts` method to simplify this API call and provide a pre-created object for the response.

### Pet Party Planning

When the application creates a party, it also creates a Klaviyo list with the same name in the background.

> When adding pets to the party, the server uses the `Klaviyo Node SDK`'s `CreateProfile` endpoint to add the new attendee to the linked Klaviyo account and creates a `profileId`. The `profileId` is then used to subscribe the new attendee to the list created earlier. This is done with the `ProfileApi.subscribeProfiles` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When adding pets to the party, the server uses the `Klaviyo Node SDK`'s `CreateProfile` endpoint to add the new attendee to the linked Klaviyo account and create a `profileId`. The `profileId` is then used to subscribe the new attendee to the list created earlier. This is done with the `ProfileApi.subscribeProfiles` endpoint.
```

Custom profile properties, specifically `pet_name` and `pet_type`, are added to the corresponding profile using the `properties` attribute.

> Note: If you have double opt-in enabled for email consent, an email will be sent to the email address to confirm their subscription. For testing purposes, we recommend only inputting email addresses you have access to. See [this article](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/collect_email_and_sms_consent_via_api) to learn more about email consent.

Reviewer 2: Can you make anything with "Note:..." a GitHub flavored markdown alert?

To view the profiles in a list with OAuth, create an `OAuthSession` and use the `ListsApi.getListProfiles` endpoint again.

> This application does use pagination, which isn't included in the sample application; fortunately, it's easy to use.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't make sense to me here, is it necessary?

The `getListProfiles` response includes a `next` and `prev` page value in `response.body.data.links` Passing this value into `.getListProfiles("listId", {pageCursor: response.body.data.links.next})` will fetch the next page of results

> ## Running this Application Locally

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Running this integration locally
```

> You do not need to run this application on your local system. However, here are some instructions to set it up if you would like to try:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You do not need to run this integration on your local system. However, here are some instructions to set it up if you would like to try:
```

1. Clone this repo
2. Ensure you are using the correct node version (18.18 or later)

   This can be done with: `nvm use`

3. `npm install`
4. Copy and fill out `.env.local`

   ```
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

>    1. Fill out the Client Id and Client Secret. If you don't know where to find that information, read this getting [started with OAuth guide](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/docs/create_a_public_oauth_app)

Reviewer 2: I'm a little lost with the numbering here. Is this supposed to be another set of instructions or a continuation of the other ones?

      `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLIENT_ID` uses the `NEXT_PUBLIC_` prefix so that the client id can be accessed from the browser

>    2. For the mongoDB url, this will depend on your preferred way to run MongoDB. The [community Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/mongodb/mongodb-community-server) is free, additionally, MongoDB has a free tier cloud-hosted instance called [mongodb atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. For the MongoDB url, this will depend on your preferred way to run MongoDB. The [community Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/mongodb/mongodb-community-server) is free, additionally, MongoDB has a free tier cloud-hosted instance called [mongodb atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database).
```

To view the profiles in a list with OAuth, create an `OAuthSession` and use the `ListsApi.getListProfiles` endpoint again.

This application does use pagination, which isn't included in the sample application; fortunately, it's easy to use.
The `getListProfiles` response includes a `next` and `prev` page value in `response.body.data.links` Passing this value into `.getListProfiles("listId", {pageCursor: response.body.data.links.next})` will fetch the next page of results

> ## Running this Application Locally

Reviewer: Here is where I might put a sentence or two disclaimer about how "you don't NEED to set this app up locally, and we don't guarantee that you can/it'll be easy, but here are some instructions in case you wanna try"
